s3 stands for simple storage service
Object-based Storage
files can be 0Bytes to 5TB.
files are stored in buckets.
s3 is a universal namespace. 
https://s3-region.amazonaws.com/bucketname
Data Consistency : 
read after write conistency for puts of new objects
eventual conistency for overwrite puts and deletes(can take some time)
99.99% availability
99.9999999% durability (11X9)
Lifecycle Managment,Versioning,Encryption

S3 storage tiers:
S3 standard 99.99% availability 99.9999999% durability 

S3-IA(infrequently accessed 

S3 one Zone IA : lower cost and is in one zone only

Glacier : Data archive only. Expedied,Standard or Bulk.standard retrieval time 3-5 hours



Versioning : 
If enabled once you can only suspend versioning nd cannot be removed

if we remove a object from a bucket where versioning is enabled we will have delete marker at that version. we can restor file by removing the delete marker file.
MFA delete we can use for security purposes

Cross Region Replication : 
we can replicate entire bucket or prefixed tags
destination-Bucket we required and should be in different regions and versioning should be enabled
IamRole is reqired
It is for new files and updated files in bucket for existing objects we have to use cli to copy manually

If we delete from primary bucket it wont delete from backup bucket.Delete marker is not replicated.

LifeCycle Managment

CloudFront : content deliveryt network (CDN) that delivers webpages and other web content to users based on geographic loctaions
edge location - location where content will be cached.
origin - origin of all files that cdn will distribute.
Distribution : name given the CDN which consist of a collection of Edge locations.
Edge location are not just for read only, you can write them too.

Security
By default new buckets are private.
Setup access control to buckets by using : bucket policies,Acccess control lists

Encryption : two types of encryption
1)In transit - SSL/TLS
2)At rest - server side encryption : s3 Managed keys -SSE-s3
				   : Aws Key Managment system SSE-KMS		
				   :Server side Encryption with customer  provided keys - SSE-C
3) client side encryption



Snowball :

S3 transfer Acceleration : S3 transfer Acceleration : uses cloudfront edge network to accelerate your uploads to s3. you will get a distinct url to upload to.(bucketname.s3-accelerate.aamazonaws.com

create a normal s3 bucket go to properties and enable transfer acceleration and take a note of new endpoint



