Pods : Is a group of one or more containers with shared storage/network and a specification for how to run the containers.
pods are short lived
Basic unit of deployment.
pods are not accessible from outside the cluster. For this service are required.

kubectl get all (will show all what we have defined)	
kubectl get pods
kubectl get po
kubectl get po --show-labels
kubectl get po --show-labels -l release=0 (search for a specific label)
kubectl delete pods for deleting a pod
minikube ip 
kubectl delete pods
kubectl delete deployment
kubectl delete rc
kubectl describe pod_name
we can connect to a pod and execute a command in pod
kubectl exec pod_name command
pod label key value pair

Services : 
long running object , stable fixed port , have IP
selector series of key value pair and will maps to pods labels


In service 
one of the option is type for which we have two options ( for local cluster)
clusterIP :Internal service,  will run inside the cluster, will not expose service to outside world.Kind of a private 

NodePort : expose a port through the node ( kubernetic cluster).we have to specify nodePort in ports section. 
NodePort should be greater then 30000


ReplicaSets
we dont deploy pods directly as it can crash anytime and cannot restart on its own.

its more likely a additional layer on a pod.
difference between current and ready when you do kubectl get all and see in replica set.
current meant no of pods ready. and ready means no of pods listening.


Deployments :
Rolling update with zero downtime,
Rollbacks we can do.
Deployments create replica sets
For Rolling update Deployments will bring the new replica set with new image version and old replicat set replicas will become zero but it wont be deleted(for the case of rollback).

kubectl rollout history deploy appname it will give a history of rollout.
we can revert/rollback by using kubectl rollout undo deploy appname --to-revision=REVISION_NO if we dont specify the --to-revision rollback then it will rollback to one previous version

Bydefault kubernets remembers last 10 revision of rollout. 

